Let's get started putting together a POST request handler to deal with a user trying to add an item
to a cart.
So again the idea here is we want to make sure that clicking on the Add To Cart button triggers a POST
request.
So let's first open up our template that is generating this.
Each team right here essentially our big product's listing.
We're gonna find that button right there.
We're going to make sure that is wrapped inside of a form element that's going to trigger a POST request
so defined the template that renders out all that big listing of products.
We'll find our views directory inside there we'll find the products directory and then inside of that
we'll find index dot J.S..
So this is a file that we just copy pasted a pretty good amount of H2 into just a moment to go inside
of here inside of the rendered products map statement we can find a footer element.
So this photo right here is what is responsible for showing that button all the way at the bottom of
each individual product listing inside of that footer you'll see that there is the button with the text
that says add to cart.
In addition there is already a form element inside there.
So I took the liberty of putting in that form element because I think we've done that stuff enough already
inside this course and you probably don't really want to put together another form so you'll notice
that the form has a method of post which is what we want.
And it also has a defined action property.
Remember the action defines where the browser is going to submit this form data to.
Right now it's going to attempt to submit all this or this request to an end point of slash cart slash
products.
Now that's definitely OK but there's a little issue with that approach right now that form doesn't actually
contain any meaningful inputs and there are many forms on the screen.
So right now if we were to click on any of these buttons we would really have no idea of what product
we were trying to add we wouldn't have any idea of OK.
We want to add the gloves as opposed to khaki pants.
So we need to make sure that when a user clicks on that form element we somehow communicate some information
about the product that we're trying to add into the shopping cart to do so.
There are two different approaches we can use.
We can either put the idea the product that we want to add into our cart at the very end of that year
L. so we could say something like Dollar Sign curly brace product dot I.D..
So now we would be submitting our form to an end point of cart products slash the idea of this product
so we could definitely form our request handler to make sure that it reads in the last part of the URL
as a parameter just as we've done once before and essentially read whatever string is right after that
slash right there that is the first way that we could somehow decide what product we're trying to add
to a cart the other way that we could approach this is to add an input element into the form itself.
We could have this input be hidden so user would not see it at all.
And then here's the critical step we could assign a value of product dot I.D. So now whenever a user
submits this form behind the scenes totally invisible to the user there's also going to be an input
inside there and the input is going to have a value of the products I.D. And so inside of our post request
handler we could read from req dot body and get the information stored inside that input so those are
two different ways to achieve the exact same thing.
Just for variety sake we're going to try to use this hidden input as a way to figure out what product
we're trying to add into the cart.
I'm going to make sure that this input also has a name property so that we know how to actually access
this product I.D. so call it about a name of product I.D. makes enough sense okay.
So now we're going to want to put together a post request handler.
We're going to make sure that we receive a post request to cart slash products.
And then inside that handler we're going to try to get the REC dot body dot product I.D. and that is
gonna be the idea of the product that we're trying to add to the user's cart.
Let's go back to our carts route file right underneath the first comment I'll add in router dot post.
We're going to watch for a post request to cart slash products
I'll put in my callback function with rec and rez and then inside of here right now we'll just do a
wreck not body dot product I.D..
So again that's going to be the idea the product we want to add to our cart and then at the bottom.
Right now I'll just do a resort send of product added about product added to cart just to be a little
bit more specific okay.
Let's save that.
I'm gonna go back over to the browser or refresh I'll hit add to cart I see the text product added to
cart.
Very good.
And if I go to my terminal I will see the idea of the product that I just tried to add right.
So this definitely works out as a first step.
So now we know exactly what product we're trying to add.
Now we just need to figure out all that kind of cart related logic.
So in other words all the stuff we saw on this diagram.
So we need to make sure that we create a cart and store it inside of a repository.
And when we create that cart we need to make sure that we store the idea the cart that was created on
the user's cookie so that it gets appended onto follow up requests.
And we know that this cart belongs to that user.
So still a pretty good amount of work to do.
Let's get started in the next video.